#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Develop Facebook Apps on Force.com =

Force.com for Facebook is a free set of tools and services that enables developers to harness the power of the Facebook and Force.com platforms to build business applications for Facebook.

Force.com for Facebook gives you direct access to the Facebook APIs from within Apex Code, letting you create new social graph applications and user experiences that connect directly to Force.com’s Sites, database, integration, logic, and Visualforce user interface capabilities. Now, you can tap into the power of the social graph from the enterprise cloud.

---
= Installing Force.com for Facebook =
== Abstract ==

This document will assist you in setting up Force.com Sites, the Salesforce Customer Portal and the Force.com for Facebook toolkit.
==Prerequisites==

The following installation process will install the Force.com for Facebook toolkit and relies on the following items:

    * Eclipse Force.com IDE
    * Installation of Subclipse, a subversion plugin for Eclipse
    * Force.com Sites
    * Salesforce Customer Portal
    * Facebook Developer Application

== Installing Subclipse ==

Follow the instructions here: [http://subclipse.tigris.org/install.html]

    * Be sure to *uncheck* Integrations containing Buckminster and Subclipse integration for Mylyn during the plugin installation.
    * If this is the first time you've used SVN, please read the supporting documentation that comes with the Subclipse plugin.

== Export the Facebook Toolkit from !CodeShare ==

Steps to checkout

   # Create a new project in Eclipse and accept all the defaults.
   # Go to Window > Open Perspective > Other and select *SVN Repository Exploring*
   # Add a new repository: http://force4facebook.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/
   # Navigate to force4facebook3/src and right-click the folder.
         # Go to export and enter the name of your new project when prompted for a project name.
         # You will be asked to delete and overwrite the existing project. Accept this.
   # Return to the Force.com IDE perspective and refresh your project to see the Force.com for Facebook items added to the project.

== Activate Force.com Sites ==

   # Go to *Setup > Develop > Sites*
   # Create and register a Force.com Domain
   # Click *New* to create a new site for this domain
         # Enter a *Site Label*, such as 'FB Event Manager'
         # *Site Name* will be autopopulated as 'FB_Event_Manager'
         # Select your user account as a *Site Contact*
         # Check the *Active* checkbox
         # Keep the rest of the options on their default settings

== Allowing for Authentication of Users ==

In order to adhere to the Salesforce terms of service, we must use the Salesforce Customer Portal in order to authenticate users, rather than writing our own methods for user authentication.

   # Go to *Setup > Customize > Customer Portal > Settings*
   # Click *Edit* and check the *Enable Customer Portal* checkbox
   # Click *Cancel* to skip the Customer Portal User Wizard
   # Click *Edit* next to the newly created Customer Portal
         # Ensure that *Login Enabled* is checked
         # Set your user account to be the *Administrator User*
         # Check the *Self-Registration Enabled* checkbox
         # Set *Default New User License* to 'Customer Portal Manager'
         # Set *Default New User Role* to 'User'
         # Set *Default New User Profile* to 'Customer Portal Manager'


== Creating Tabs For Our New Objects ==

   # Go to *Setup > Create > Tabs*
   # Click *New* in 'Custom Object Tabs'
         # Select *GFCUser* as the object
         # Select any tab style
         # Click *Next* and make the tab visible only for the 'System Administrator'
         # Click *Next* and make the tab available only to the 'Force.com' app or any other app of your choosing
         # Repeat for the *Site Config* object

== Setting up a Facebook Application ==

   # Go to [http://www.facebook.com Facebook.com] and login
   # Add the *Developer* application to your Facebook account
   # Click on *Setup New Application* within the Developer application
   # Give it a name. Keep in mind you can't use 'Facebook' or any variation of that word in the name of your application
   # Make note of your *API Key* and *Secret*, you will need these in Salesforce
   # Click on the *Connect* item in the sidebar and set your *Connect URL* to the domain of your Force.com Site (http://sitename-developer-edition.na7.force.com)
   # Click on the *Advanced* menu item and ensure that the *Application Type* is set to 'Web'
   # Click *Save Changes*
= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages